# Cuda Project 3

In this project you will implement a GPU version of the parallel radix parition using CUDA. Radixpartition is a partition mechanism commonly used in parallel hash join.  It reorders the input keysso  that  the  keys  that  have  the  same  radix  value  (or  hash  value)  are  gathered  into  a  contiguousmemory  space  that  forms  a  partition.   The  output  array  consists  of  all  the  partitions  and  thepartitions with smaller radix values are located in front of those with larger radix values.
To begin with, each key of the input array need to determine its radix value using hash functionh1.h1 can be as simple as a bit field extraction which takes little time but does the job fairly.  Asa result, the keys that have the same radix value are clustered consecutively in the memory space.In order to efficiently partition the input in parallel, first we need to compute a histogram of theradix values by scanning the array of keys so that we know the number of keys that belong to eachpartition.   This  is  similar  to  computing  the  histogram  of  distance  in  project  1  and  2.   After  we obtain the histogram, we perform an exclusive prefix scan on the histogram to get the prefix sumof the bucket counters.  The prefix sum serves as the output offset of each partition for each threadblock so the threads can work independently to reorder the keys they processed when building thehistogram.
The main objective of this project is to practice your CUDA programming skills.  You have thefreedom to choose any techniques you learned from class to improve your program, these include(but are not limited to):  using shared memory to hold input data, manipulating input data layoutfor coalesced memory access, managing thread workflow to reduce code divergence, atomic oper-ations, private copies of output, and shuffle instructions.  You can use a combination of differenttechniques that may help improve the performance.  Therefore, your goal is to try all you can thinkof to optimize your program.  The following papers address the implementation and optimizationof parallel hash join algorithms that uses the parallel radix partition.  They may help you in un-derstanding the basic idea and designing your code
